# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN
## Architecture
#### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
###### The types of frontend development used within my travlr getaways project were Express HTML, JavaScript, and SPA. Express.js used the database to provide the data, handlebars to provide the format, and loops to populate the pages. SPA was implemented to make it easier for the user. It loads the page once. SPA’s dynamically rewrite the necessary content, instead of loading the entire page from the server. Javascripts was used throughout the entire process and implemented in the frontend, backend, and the database using MongoDB. 
#### Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
###### One of the major factors using MongoDB as the database is due to the fact it uses Javascript. In this web application, we were able to implement Javascript in the frontend, backend, and database, which allowed it to communicate well with each other. The NoSQL database was easy to implement, host, and integrate with the other tools used in the MEAN stack. Another benefit of MongoDB is that it doesn’t rely on the schema and is the main advantage using this database.
## Functionality
#### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
###### The main difference between JSON and Javascript is how they are presented. Javascript essentially brings web pages to life. Every aspect of web development relies on Javascript. JSON is an abbreviation for JavaScript Object Notation. It is a data format that is independent of any programming language and is supported by a variety of programming languages. It is used for storing and transporting data and is presented in text only. It is structured in two basic ways: a key/value pair, or an ordered list. JSON is comparable to Javascript objects, which are also used to store data. For example, in this project there were trips. The trips all had information like an image name, trip name, description, etc. This was passed to the frontend in JSON in text. The frontend switched those to JavaScript objects called trips and then used the properties (trip.name, trip.image, trip.description, etc.) to populate HTML fields and display data for the end user. For the backend, it used similar methods.
#### Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
###### One of the many instances that I implemented to improve functionality was in the trips’ items. I had refactored the code to use handlebars that allowed the data to be presented without having to access the database. This made it more efficient. In Trips, I added code after the HTML block that reduced errors from copying multiple lines of code for each element in trips. For example, I added {{/each}} as well as {{each trips}} before and after the block to reduce the lines of code. One of the benefits of implanting reusable user interface (UI) components is the fact that it makes your code more readable and less chaotic. It will reduce errors and helps eliminate unnecessary or repeated code.
## Testing
#### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
###### There are a variety of ways to test and validate code. No matter which area you wanted tested, there are tools to help facilitate that authentication. For this project, I mainly used postman or verified on the site via my localhost. The console log would give specifics on where the error occurred. I ran into errors, but I was able to read the error and decipher it for a quick solution. For example, I had issues with a type error: jwt is not a function. The solution was an older version of express-jwt loaded to the powershell. Methods that were used for api testing were GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE. GET: get object – PUT: modify object – POST: - create object – DELETE: delete object. Security in full stack development is essential. Verifying authentication and ensuring the authorized user is logged in is vital in security protocols. It is a large factor for any web application. 
## Reflection
#### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
###### There are many advantages in taking this course that has helped my professional development. This course specifically has helped my gain more knowledge and refine my skills with JavaScript. It has also given me the opportunity to obtain knowledge with HTML and gain the confidence with developing a frontend and backend web application. Having learned MEAN stack will only benefit my personal and professional goals. I have learned quite a bit about API’s and security as well as how MVC model’s function. I didn’t realize the importance of API’s. 
